# Data Set Descriptions

In this project, you'll query 3 datasets as well as write a query to generate a new dataset that you will use in your tableau visualizations. The `Intel.energy_data` dataset will be the main dataset you'll be working with. The `Intel.energy_by_plant_data` and `Intel.power_plants_data` datasets will be joined for an in-depth analysis of energy production at the power plant level.

## Intel.energy_data

[Intel.energy_data](https://github.com/Ian8912/Intel_Data_Center_Analysis/blob/main/datasets/Intel.energy_data.csv)

Contains information about daily energy production and consumption for different regions in the United States.

- **balancing_authority**: A Balancing Authority is responsible for maintaining the electricity balance within its region. This is a company that makes sure electricity is being exchanged between electric providers and regions so that no region runs out of electricity due to high demand.
- **date**: The date the energy was produced.
- **region**: The electric service area within a geographic area of the USA, e.g., California, Midwest, etc.
- **time_at_end_of_hour**: The time and date after energy was generated, e.g., energy generated between 1pm-2pm will show up as 2pm in this field.
- **demand**: The energy demand in megawatts (MW) on the grid (what the houses/businesses are using).
- **net_generation**: The energy produced in MW in the region by all sources, e.g., wind, coal, nuclear, etc.
- **all_petroleum_products**: The energy produced in MW by petroleum products.
- **coal**: The energy produced in MW by all coal products.
- **hydropower_and_pumped_storage**: The energy produced in MW by water power and pumped heat sources.
- **natural_gas**: The energy produced in MW by natural gas sources.
- **nuclear**: The energy produced in MW from nuclear fuel sources.
- **solar**: The energy produced in MW by solar panels and other solar energy capturing methods.
- **wind**: The energy produced in MW from wind turbines and other wind sources.

## Intel.power_plants_data

[Intel.power_plants_data](https://github.com/Ian8912/Intel_Data_Center_Analysis/blob/main/datasets/Intel.power_plants_data.csv)

Contains general information about power plants in the United States.

- **plant_name**: The name of the power plant.
- **plant_code**: The unique identifier of the plant.
- **region**: The region in the US where the power plant is located. Matches the regions in the `Intel.energy_data`.
- **state**: The state where the power plant is located.
- **primary_technology**: The primary technology used to generate electricity at the power plant.

## Intel.energy_by_plant_data

[Intel.energy_by_plant_data](https://github.com/Ian8912/Intel_Data_Center_Analysis/blob/main/datasets/Intel.energy_by_plant_data.csv)

Contains total energy production information at the plant for the year 2022.

- **plant_name**: The name of the power plant.
- **plant_code**: The unique identifier of the plant.
- **energy_type**: The kind of energy generated by the power plant. Either renewable energy or fossil fuel.
- **energy_generated_mw**: The total energy generated, in MegaWatts, at the plant for the year 2022.
